# Financial News Headline Sentiment Analysis
_by Michael Wu_

###_An overview of the issue to be investigated_
Many economist have argued that stock market is random because it is governed by random events based on the efficient market hypothesis. However, researchers have found that it is possible to have a sense of where the stock market will go based on news sentiment around the world. In an increasingly connected global market, news sentiment towards one company may not only indicate its own market performance, but can also be associated with a broader movement on the sentiment and performance of other companies from the same or even different sectors ([Wan, X., Yang, J., Marinov, S. et al., 2021](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-021-82338-6)). In short, researchers have found that there is a correlation between news sentiment and stock performance of a company, and that news sentiment of a company could be an indicator of its stock performance in the short term.

The objective of this assignment is to perform sentiment analysis of new headlines for top listed technology companies in US, and extract keywords that contribute to the sentiment for a given news headline. By understanding what keywords in the news headline contribute to the sentiment direction (positive verse negative) of a company, investors and researchers can then use this information to predict the stock performance.

###_How the WebCrawler align to this issue_
In order to achieve the objective of this assignment, we need to obtain new headlines for top listed technology companies in US. To obtain the news headlines, we used a website called FINVIZ, which is a browser-based stock market research platform with market information such as daily news headlines from different news agencies on a company. Given that the key objective of this assignment is to assess the sentiment on news headlines for top listed technology companies in US, a webcrawler on the FINVIZ website to obtain news headlines is directly related to the issue we are investigating. 

In addition, in order to determine whether there is a correlation between share price and news sentiment of a company, we need to obtain historical price of a company. To do so, a webcrawler on the Yahoo Finance website to obtain historical price of those top listed technology companies in US.

###_NLP tasks align to the issue_
As mentioned in the objective, researchers have found that there is a correlation between news sentiment and stock performance. And thus, the first NLP task in this investigation is to perform sentiment analysis on company news headlines, as we hypothesise that by understanding the sentiment direction, it can help predict the direction of the stock performance. The second NLP task is an extension to the first, in which we perform semantic analysis and determine keywords that contribute to the sentiment for each news headline. This can help investors identify keywords from news headlines and use the insight to make informed decision on the stock performance in the short term.